           **********************************
           SONGARDEN ALPHA V1 - March 1, 2020
           **********************************

Thank you for trying Songarden, that's pretty cool! 

To start, please double click on songarden. You will be
prompted to give your computer password to allow access to
the keyboard. We will not log any sensitive data, promise.

                    ~| CONTROLS |~

Songarden is entirely keyboard-operated. Each focus in the
UI will present you with up to five actions highlighted in
YELLOW, BLUE, PINK, GREEN, and RED. To move between focii,
use the arrow keys. To make a selection, use the following
keys:

              R:YELLOW            I:GREEN
              V:BLUE              M:PINK
                       Space:RED

These keys were chosen to fit within the piano keyboard,
which is mapped to the following keys:

        W:C# E:D#      T:F# Y:G# U:A#      O:C# P:D#
      A:C  S:D  D:E  F:F  G:G  H:A  J:B  K:C  L:D

To change a parameter, please hold down the selection key 
while using the arrow keys to change its value.

Now, try opening the demo project from the homescreen.

                    ~| MODULES |~

You will be dropped on the keyboard module. To navigate
between modules, simply use the arrow keys to move past the
top or bottom edge of the screen. 

To delete a module, move past the left edge of the screen 
and press PINK to delete your selection. This cannot be
undone.

To add a module or to save the current project, press ENTER
and press YELLOW BLUE GREEN PINK or RED to make your choice.

                    ~| PATCHING |~

The Songarden sound engine is entirely modular where any
connection between an input and an output can carry a MIDI
or audio signal. Press TAB to show the patch view. 

Each route shown on the left can accept any number of
inputs, and feed any number of outputs. All outputs will be
given an identical signal, and all inputs will be mixed.

To patch, simply select an input or output and press LEFT or
RIGHT to connect it to a route. 

To add a new route, move to the bottom of the screen and
press RED. To remove the last route, press YELLOW.

                    ~| TIMELINE |~

The timeline is the heart of most projects, allowing you to 
record and playback MIDI and audio data. 

The patch view for the timeline enumerates one input and one
output for each track. The output of one track can be
patched into another track.

To arm a track for MIDI recording, move to its track header 
and press RED once. For audio recording, press RED again. To
disarm, press RED one more time.

        Disarmed:     MIDI Record:    Audio Record
                      …               ∿
        r             R               R

To record, move to the top left and press RED. When finished
press RIGHT BRACKET to stop. Press LEFT BRACKET to play.

To navigate the timeline, move to a recorded region and
press LEFT or RIGHT to scrub forward or backward. On first
press, the playhead will move at quarter speed, press LEFT
or RIGHT repeatedly to speed up or change direction.

When an audio or MIDI region is selected, press YELLOW to
split it into two regions about the playhead. Press and
hold GREEN and use LEFT and RIGHT to move the region. Press 
PINK to delete a region.

At the moment is not possible to move regions between
tracks.

If you wish to edit at more precise scale, move to the top
right then press and hold GREEN and use UP and DOWN to
change the zoom level. 

Changing the BPM and meter of the project will not affect
the timing of the regions, only the grid and metronome.
Change the BPM by holding RED and pressing UP and DOWN.
Change the meter by holding YELLOW or BLUE et cetera.

                    ~| WRITING MODULES |~

Songarden gives users an extensible API for writing new
instruments and effects in the Faust DSP language. To write
a new module, create a new file named "mymodule.dsp" and place
it in the "modules/" folder. By default we included a large
library of examples, so take a look for inspiration.

For more information about Faust, please go to 
https://faust.grame.fr

                    ~| FEEDBACK |~

Please note that this is an alpha release and you could
experience errors and crashes at any time. Please save your
work songs frequently.

Please submit bug reports with steps to reproduce and any 
textual output from Songarden to jrkolsby@mac.com. 

We plan on adding many new features to Songarden for the
beta release and are receptive to ideas or requests!
